doc(cmd/gossamer): README for `cmd` package (#1929)
ChainSafe/gossamer: cmd/gossamer/README.md

interface (CLI). The Gossamer CLI accepts several subcommands, each of which is associated with an "action"; these
subcommands and their corresponding actions are defined in [`main.go`](main.go). When the Gossamer CLI is executed
without a subcommand, the `gossamerAction` is invoked. What follows is a list of the Gossamer subcommands, as well as an
overview of some of the flags/parameters they accept. The flags/parameters that the Gossamer CLI supports are defined in
[`flags.go`](flags.go). For an exhaustive reference of the Gossamer CLI capabilities, follow
[the installation instructions](../../README.md#installation) and execute `./bin/gossamer --help`.

- `gossamerAction` - This the default Gossamer execution action - it will launch a Gossamer blockchain client. The
  details of how Gossamer orchestrates a blockchain client are [described below in the Client Components section](#client-components).
  - `chain` - specifies the [chain configuration](../../chain) that the
    [Gossamer host node](https://chainsafe.github.io/gossamer/getting-started/overview/host-architecture/) should load

>   - `log` - supports levels `crit` (silent), `error`, `warn`, `info` and `trce` (detailed), default is `info`

Reviewer: aka `dbug`. Also if we use 4 letters levels, maybe change `error` to `eror`? But that's just details, both do work.

>   - `log` - supports levels `crit` (silent), `error`, `warn`, `info` and `trce` (detailed), default is `info`

Author: I documented this as `debug` so let me know if that's not correct.

- `account` - The `account` subcommand provides the user with capabilities related to generating and using `ed25519`,
  `secp256k1`, and `sr25519` [account keys](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-keys), and managing the keys
  present in the [Gossamer keystore](#keystore). The action for this subcommand is defined in [account.go](account.go);
  it is an interface to the capabilities defined in the [`crypto`](../../lib/crypto) and
  [`keystore`](../../lib/keystore) packages. This subcommand provides capabilities that are similar to
  [Parity's Subkey utility](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/tools/subkey).
  - `generate` - creates a new key pair; specify `--ed25519`, `secp256k1`, or `--sr25519` (default)
  - `list` - lists the keys in the Gossamer keystore
  - `password` - allows the user to provide a password for encrypting a generated key, or unlocking the Gossamer
    keystore
- `import-runtime` - This subcommand takes a [Wasm runtime binary](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-wasm) and
  uses it to generate a [genesis](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/glossary#genesis) configuration file; it does not

>   require any flags, but expects the path to a Wasm file to be provided as a command-line parameter (example:

Reviewer: TIL you can actually use plurals after `any`! Never too late!

  `./bin/gossamer import-runtime runtime.wasm > genesis.json`).
- `build-spec` - This subcommand allows the user to "compile" a human-readable Gossamer genesis configuration file into
  a format that the Gossamer node can consume. If the `--genesis` parameter is not provided, the generated genesis
  configuration will represent the Gossamer default configuration.
  - `genesis` - path to the human-readable configuration file that should be compiled into a format that Gossamer can
    consume

> - `import-state` - The `import-state` subcommand allows a user to seed [Gossamer storage](../../dot/state) with

Reviewer: Oh I thought some of these were starting with a verb directly, that's why I suggested it to match the rest (probably above).

  key-value pairs in the form of a JSON file. The input for this subcommand can be retrieved from
  [the state_getPairs RPC endpoint](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs/blob/master/PSPs/drafts/psp-6.md#1114-state_getpairs).
  - `first-slot` - the first [BABE](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-consensus#block-production-babe) slot,

>     which is the timestamp of the first block divided by the slot duration

Reviewer: Makes sense.

Maybe add `unix timestamp`? But maybe that's just me being way too explicit 😄

>     which is the timestamp of the first block divided by the slot duration

Author: This is actually addressed by another comment made by @noot 💪🏻 Some changes are OTW for this doc 🚀

  - `header` - path to a JSON file that describes the block header corresponding to the given state

>   - `state` - path to a JSON file that contains the key-value pairs with which to seed Gossamer storage

Reviewer: To me state is more of a runtime thing, whilst storage is more of a disk (and runtime) storage. Although you're right, in this case, they both work I think? Anyway I think it would be good to use only one of the two, leaning towards `state`. You can add that the `state` is stored here and there too.

>   - `state` - path to a JSON file that contains the key-value pairs with which to seed Gossamer storage

Author: I agree that "state" should imply runtime storage, but I don't know if that is the case for the Gossamer code base as a whole so I don't feel like it's necessary to worry about that in this document at this time.

- `init` - This subcommand accepts a genesis configuration file and uses it to initialise the Gossamer node and its
  state.
  - `genesis` - path to the "compiled" genesis configuration file that should be used to initialise the Gossamer node
    and its state
- `export` - The `export` subcommand transforms a genesis configuration and Gossamer state into a TOML configuration
  file.

>   - `config` - path to a TOML configuration file (e.g. [Polkadot](../../chain/polkadot/config.toml))

Reviewer: Maybe just have it as

```suggestion
  - `config` - path to a TOML configuration file ([example configuration](../../chain/polkadot/config.toml))
```

Reading this with fresh eyes, both `Polkadot` and `Polkadot path` are confusing 😄

Also link to a particular commit (aka permalink) to avoid the links from breaking.

>   - `basepath` - path to the Gossamer data directory that defines the state to export

Author: Correct, but they seem to be the important/required flags for the _export_ subcommand in particular, right?

>   - `basepath` - path to the Gossamer data directory that defines the state to export

Reviewer 2: yeah, it's fine to leave them here

## Client Components

In its default method of execution, Gossamer orchestrates a number of modular services that run
[concurrently as goroutines](https://www.golang-book.com/books/intro/10) and work together to implement the protocols of
a blockchain network. Alongside these services, Gossamer manages [a keystore](#keystore), [a runtime](#runtime), and
[a telemetry service](#telemetry), all of which are described in greater detail below. The entry point to the Gossamer
blockchain client capabilities is the `gossamerAction` function that is defined in [main.go](main.go), which in turn

> invokes the `NewNode` function in [dot/node.go](../../dot/node.go). `NewNode` calls into functions that are defined in

Author: Just wanted to revisit this comment and make an amendment - once we have a better release/tagging system I am _all for_ linking to line numbers in tagged releases ✅

> invokes the `NewNode` function in [dot/node.go](../../dot/node.go). `NewNode` calls into functions that are defined in

Reviewer: The suggestion links to a certain commit + line number, so it won't change.
The problem with linking to a file (even without line number) is that it might move and then the document becomes broken. At least link to the commit (and remove the line number)? So if we decide to ahem split packages, it won't be broken 😉

> invokes the `NewNode` function in [dot/node.go](../../dot/node.go). `NewNode` calls into functions that are defined in

Author: If the code changes we need to update the documentation to match. We should have CI jobs that check our docs for broken links.

> invokes the `NewNode` function in [dot/node.go](../../dot/node.go). `NewNode` calls into functions that are defined in

Reviewer: Create an issue for that 😄 👍

> invokes the `NewNode` function in [dot/node.go](../../dot/node.go). `NewNode` calls into functions that are defined in

Author: Added something to the Team Code Review doc ✅

[`cli` package from `urfave`](https://github.com/urfave/cli/blob/master/docs/v1/manual.md) to expose a command-line
interface (CLI). The Gossamer CLI accepts several subcommands, each of which is associated with an "action"; these
subcommands and their corresponding actions are defined in [`main.go`](main.go). When the Gossamer CLI is executed
without a subcommand, the `gossamerAction` is invoked.

## Actions & Subcommands

What follows is a list of the Gossamer subcommands, as well as an overview of some of the flags/parameters they accept.
The flags/parameters that the Gossamer CLI supports are defined in [`flags.go`](flags.go). For an exhaustive reference
of the Gossamer CLI capabilities, follow [the installation instructions](../../README.md#installation) and execute
`./bin/gossamer --help`.

### Default Command

This the default Gossamer execution method, which invokes the `gossamerAction` function defined in
[`main.go`](main.go) - it will launch a Gossamer blockchain client. The details of how Gossamer orchestrates a
blockchain client are [described below in the Client Components section](#client-components).

> - `basepath` - the path to the directory where Gossamer will store its data

Reviewer: It's not totally clear these are flags to me, reading from the top. Maybe add a sentence before the bullet points or prefix each with `--` (I prefer the second for copy pasta purposes but that's subjective)

Author: You had me at "copy pasta" 😋

- `chain` - specifies the [chain configuration](../../chain) that the
  [Gossamer host node](https://chainsafe.github.io/gossamer/getting-started/overview/host-architecture/) should load
- `key` - specifies a test keyring account to use (e.g. `--key=alice`)
- `log` - supports levels `crit` (silent), `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, and `trce` (detailed), default is `info`
- `name` - node name, as it will appear in, e.g., [telemetry](https://telemetry.polkadot.io/)

### Init Subcommand

This subcommand accepts a genesis configuration file and uses it to initialise the Gossamer node and its state. The
`init` subcommand invokes the `initAction` function defined in [`main.go`](main.go).

- `genesis` - path to the "compiled" genesis configuration file that should be used to initialise the Gossamer node and
  its state

### Account Subcommand

The `account` subcommand provides the user with capabilities related to generating and using `ed25519`, `secp256k1`, and
`sr25519` [account keys](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-keys), and managing the keys present in the

> [Gossamer keystore](#keystore). The `actionAction` function is defined in [account.go](account.go); it is an interface

Reviewer: `actionAction`? Typo perhaps?

Author: Ahahaha definite typo 😂

to the capabilities defined in the [`lib/crypto`](../../lib/crypto) and [`lib/keystore`](../../lib/keystore) packages.
This subcommand provides capabilities that are similar to
[Parity's Subkey utility](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/tools/subkey).

- `generate` - creates a new key pair; specify `--ed25519`, `--secp256k1`, or `--sr25519` (default)
- `list` - lists the keys in the Gossamer keystore
- `password` - allows the user to provide a password to either encrypt a generated key or unlock the Gossamer keystore

### Import Runtime Subcommand

This subcommand takes a [Wasm runtime binary](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-wasm) and uses it to generate a
[genesis](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/glossary#genesis) configuration file; it does not require any flags, but
expects the path to a Wasm file to be provided as a command-line parameter (example:
`./bin/gossamer import-runtime runtime.wasm > genesis.json`). The `import-runtime` subcommand invokes the

> `importRuntimeAction` function defined in [`main.go`](main.go).

Reviewer: I'm thinking a summary markdown table with columns subcommand, main.go function and link to subsection here, at the top would be nice. Just a suggestion though.

Author: Definitely not a bad idea, but I'm going to put a pin in this for now.

### Build Spec Subcommand

This subcommand allows the user to "compile" a human-readable Gossamer genesis configuration file into a format that the
Gossamer node can consume. If the `--genesis` parameter is not provided, the generated genesis configuration will
represent the Gossamer default configuration. The `build-spec` subcommand invokes the `buildSpecAction` function defined
in [`main.go`](main.go).

> - `genesis` - path to the human-readable configuration file that should be compiled into a format that Gossamer can

Reviewer 2: I'd also add the `--raw` flag here, which outputs the result in "raw" key-value storage format

  consume

### Import State Subcommand

The `import-state` subcommand allows a user to seed [Gossamer storage](../../dot/state) with key-value pairs in the form
of a JSON file. The input for this subcommand can be retrieved from
[the `state_getPairs` RPC endpoint](https://github.com/w3f/PSPs/blob/master/PSPs/drafts/psp-6.md#1114-state_getpairs).
The `importStateAction` function is defined in [`main.go`](main.go).

- `first-slot` - the first [BABE](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-consensus#block-production-babe) slot, which

>   can be found by checking the [digest](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/getting-started/glossary/#digest) for a chain's

Reviewer 2: I'd specifically say "by checking the BABE pre-runtime digest" (and perhaps link to polkascan?)

- `imon` - The name of this key is a reference to "ImOnline", which is an
  [online message](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/glossary#online-message) that Gossamer nodes use to report
  liveliness.

### Runtime

In addition to the above-described services, Gossamer hosts a Wasm execution environment that is used to manage an
upgradeable blockchain runtime. The runtime must be implemented in Wasm, and must expose an interface that is specified
in [lib/runtime/interface.go](../../lib/runtime/interface.go). The runtime defines the blockchain's state transition
function, and the various Gossamer services consume this capability in order to author blocks, as well as to verify
blocks that were authored by network peers. The runtime is dependent on a
[Wasm host interface](https://docs.wasmer.io/integrations/examples/host-functions), which Gossamer implements and is
defined in [lib/runtime/wasmer/exports.go](../../lib/runtime/wasmer/exports.go).

### Monitoring

Gossamer publishes telemetry data and also includes an embedded Prometheus server that reports metrics. The metrics
capabilities are defined in the [dot/metrics](../../dot/metrics) package and build on

> [the metrics library that is included with Go Ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/blob/master/metrics/README.md).

Reviewer: maybe let the user know on which port the prometheus metrics are available.

Author: Yes please...do you know the answer to this question?

Reviewer: The default port for Prometheus is `9090` so that should be it. It's mentioned in one of the doc, although I don't see it in our code. By the way - OOS - we should have it configurable ideally.

Reviewer 2: there is also a `--metrics-port` flag to set it :)

Author: What is the meaning of "OOS" in this context?

Reviewer: @noot My bad, awesome! OOS=out of scope 😄 I need to stop using abbreviations I'm sorry!

Author: IOKDDWAI

Author: (it's okay dude don't worry about it)
